# WERB: WebAssembly Embedded Ruby

Use ERB/rhtml to build DOMs in [ruby.wasm](https://github.com/ruby/ruby.wasm).

WERB is an unopinionated tool for compiling ERB/rhtml into ruby.wasm DOM operations for building the DOM tree described in the source file. Specifically, it generates code which, when run on a Ruby VM on WASM, generate the desired DOM. Read more about the capabilities of WERB [here](docs/capabilities.md). 

This means that WERB is a _developer_'s tool by nature, and not a package like React that is shipped to the client. Speaking of React, WERB is **not** a full blown UI framework and does not aim to be (at least for now). 

## Installation

TODO: Replace `UPDATE_WITH_YOUR_GEM_NAME_PRIOR_TO_RELEASE_TO_RUBYGEMS_ORG` with your gem name right after releasing it to RubyGems.org. Please do not do it earlier due to security reasons. Alternatively, replace this section with instructions to install your gem from git if you don't plan to release to RubyGems.org.

Install the gem and add to the application's Gemfile by executing:

    $ bundle add UPDATE_WITH_YOUR_GEM_NAME_PRIOR_TO_RELEASE_TO_RUBYGEMS_ORG

If bundler is not being used to manage dependencies, install the gem by executing:

    $ gem install UPDATE_WITH_YOUR_GEM_NAME_PRIOR_TO_RELEASE_TO_RUBYGEMS_ORG

## Usage
### For Developers
The CLI is the recommended way to use WERB in development. The simplest way to call werb would be to just do 
```bash
werb your-file.erb
```
WERB will compile this erb file into a HTML file which internally uses ruby.wasm DOM operations to generate the DOM in the erb file. If you want to save this output to a file, you can simply do
```bash
werb your-file.erb > your-file.html
```
`your-file.html` is a fully valid HTML file, and is ready to be rendered on the browser, assuming the erb code itself contains all the necessary logic.

There are other flags which help you customize some aesthetics of the generated code. For example,
```bash
werb --template nil your-file.erb
```
will generate just the DOM operations without the HTML boilerplate. This would be useful if you already have a HTML file and are simply looking to extend.

### For Browsers
Running the code generated by WERB in a browser does not require WERB. It only needs `ruby.wasm` with the JS interop extension. This is easily available via CDN as shown [here](https://github.com/ruby/ruby.wasm/tree/main/packages/npm-packages/ruby-head-wasm-wasi). 
Alternatively, you can use one of the templates which have all of this automatically set up.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`.

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/forthoney/werb. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/forthoney/werb/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Werb project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/forthoney/werb/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
